title: Having Opinions
date: 2016-02-11 13:40:41
tags:
---

I wasn't always opinionated. There was a time I kept my mouth shut. I was a likable person, but in retrospect, I don't believe I was truly respected. I wanted to be likable and without having and articulating opinions of my own, for a long time I remained a child. Therefore, I can see now, why they treated me like one. Everyone I knew, friends, family, treated me like I was an empty vessel for them to fill with their own thoughts and biases. I thought it meant I had an open mind. But nobody ever asked me or cared to know what I thought. 

For years, my head was full of others people's ideas and opinions. I went along with the usual progressive line of reasoning because that's what my friends were into though I wasn't conscious of it. I hadn't really formulated my own opinions, but I do feel that I chose certain categories of opinions over others because of reasons of my own. They did connect with me on a few different levels, too many to go into now. However, what was missing was a philosophical framework from which those opinions could be grounded. To formulate your own ideas, they don't have to be original. They just need to be grounded, logically inferred, from your own values. Part of getting older is finding out what you value and what you don't. When you know your values and can derive ideas from them, then you can be confident in knowing that you're not just spouting out other people's bullshit. I think that's what was missing for me for a very long time. Not that I didn't have values, but I don't think I seriously attempted to connect my ideas and opinions with any values I may have had. I didn't know how. In short, I was a follower of other people's bullshit.

Over the last 5 years, I've transformed into something that feels unrecognizable from that. A lot of it has to do with aging. When you get older, you realize that life is quickly passing you by, and through a sense of urgency, you look back at all the years you wasted not living for yourself, letting other people dictate your priorities. Why I put up with that shit for so long is tragic. I allowed myself to be insulted and condescended to for much too long, and for what? It didn't do a goddamned thing for me. Looking back, I know now that it was the only way I knew how to survive. I just didn't know how to think for myself.

In many ways, I'm still the same as I have always been. There's a lot of things I'm still afraid of, but what people think of me is not one of them. I don't let people, friends, family, or coworkers, talk down to me. Consequently, because of my confidence, it rarely happens, so it's not like I don't let them, it's that they just don't anymore. I also have the confidence to admit when I was wrong and to adjust my thinking. I am also a better listener. Because of that, even friends with vastly different opinions than mine (but with the confidence to logically defend them) love talking to me. It doesn't always work out that way on Facebook, but in personal conversations, having deep conversations with friends, has provided a great richness to my life that makes it so much more worth living. I've also learned a lot about what I value. I value my self-ownership and the self-ownership of other human beings. The latter of which means I have empathy for the paths other human beings are on. I recognize that while most don't behave that way, they are always making choices that agree with their own values. I'm not perfect and I get frustrated with how other people think about things, especially when it comes to disrespecting my self-ownership. For instance, someone voting for a candidate who advocates higher taxes is disrespecting my self-ownership, my right to keep my property. I recognize that they aren't trying to be hurtful, they're just making choices they think will bring them the most value. My goal is to assume good intentions until we've discussed why they think it ok to steal from me. Most people don't recognize it as theft. 

As far as expressing opinions on Facebook and other social media, I can't do it anymore. For some reason, people get insulted or offended much more easily than if I were saying the same things to them in person. I believe this is because the Internet is filled with so much vitriol, that it's hard to distinguish between a friendly jab and a genuine insult. It's hard to know what the intentions are. Yet, if you're friends with someone on Facebook, shouldn't you assume good intentions from a post, even if it would sound like an insult coming from anyone else? I think a lot of pain and frustration could be avoided if we just assumed the best in people.
