title: "Excusing Violence"
date: 2015-04-26 14:23:30
tags:
---

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Statist?src=hash">#Statist</a> pro tip: when excusing violence, make sure you throw in the word &quot;nuanced&quot; to describe issues instead of making an argument.</p>&mdash; I, Statist (@i_statist) <a href="https://twitter.com/i_statist/status/590025244850528256">April 20, 2015</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I hear this word used by statists a lot. It seems to be the go to word if you don't have an argument for using violence. Responding to my Facebook post on <a href="/2015/04/26/How-Replacable-Are-You/">Minimum Wage</a>, an authoritarian statist began to engage in the discussion. He said that the issue of minimum wage was much more *nuanced* than simple supply an demand. Please read my the post, but in a nutshell, my argument is that wages are the price of labor just like anything else with a price. Most people recognize that price fixing (ceilings or floors) have negative economic consequences, yet they fail to see minimum wage laws as a kind of price fixing because they don't see labor as a commodity. Price fixing does not change the law of supply and demand. It doesn't matter how many guns you point at the problem. Anyway, this statist friend of mine, tried to excuse the violence inherent in minimum wage with a non sequitur by questioning what would happen to the illiterate or the mentally challenged without minimum wage. It only takes an ounce of critical thinking to see how it does not follow that without a minimum wage, the illiterate could not be helped through non-violent methods. Just ask the statist what they would do for the illiterate if they didn't have government guns to violently coerce peaceful people to give them jobs and a minimum wage.