title: "Time is a Scarce Resource"
date: 2016-02-11
tags:
---

I want to talk about the age-old dilemma of not having enough time, in a way that I think might be unique.

I often hear people talking about not having enough time to do the things they want to do, especially when comparing themselves to people they perceive to be more successful, or who seem to have more time. Like, if they only had more time, they can work more on their hobbies, spend more time with family, or build a successful business.

The brutal fact of life is that time is a scarce resource, we only get 24 hours a day — every single one of us. As such, you must economize time in the same way you economize other scarce goods. And like all scarce goods, what we spend it on, must be prioritized. You’re not given a million dollars every day to spend, so you, unfortunately, have to make choices, and what you choose to spend your hard earned but very limited supply of money on is a function of your priorities and values.

As a quick aside, if you had so much money that you could spend it on anything you wanted, where you didn’t have to choose between one thing or another, it almost paralyzes you. Compare that to only having 100 bucks to your name — it becomes crystal clear what your priorities are. How we manage time is very similar. I look at time like a bag of money that we’re all given the same amount of. It’s not something you find (as in “where do you find the time?”), it’s something you spend.

So, what are you spending your time on? Whether you are aware of it or not (you might be doing it subconsciously) you are always spending your time in perfect accordance with your personal priorities and values. Every single moment of every single day, you are choosing to spend your time in exactly the way you want it to be spent — congratulations! In every given moment, you are ranking everything you could be doing along a single axis in accordance with your priorities. In every moment, you are choosing to do one thing instead of another thing. Of course, I’m not saying that you’re using your time wisely, and I’m not even saying how you should be spending your time. I just want to make the point that your time is something you own and that you are always spending it on what you want.

Some of you will automatically recognize this and some of you are right now thinking, how can this be true, you’re thinking there are so many things you’d rather spend your time on. To that, I ask, oh yeah, where’s the proof? You’re lying to yourself. Seriously, stop acting like a slave to time. Just be honest. Where’s the proof you don’t have time when you’re spending it on playing video games? There’s nothing wrong with playing video games, just admit that you prefer that over the other things you say you don’t have time for. Where’s the proof you hate the time you’re spending at a crappy job? You’re still there, being yelled at. If you hate your job, ask yourself, compared to what? If you’re still in a job you say you hate, even with your shitty boss, it must certainly be true that you hate it less than all your other options available to you otherwise you’d be doing one of those other things instead! In other words, flip it around… in the same way, you hate your job relative to the alternatives, it must be equally true that you love your job (including your shitty boss) relative to your alternatives.

The people you envy are limited by the same 24 hours a day that you are. Fundamentally, what makes them different from you is how they are spending the limited time they are given. It’s possible they just figured out how to use their time more effectively with respect to their values. Just take responsibility for your choices in how you spend your time because you own yourself and your time. Don’t be afraid to admit that you prefer doing what you’re doing at this very moment over all the other possibilities.

If you truly are doing precisely what you want to be doing at every given moment (and you are), then why do you feel terrible about it? After all, you’re living your values! What could be wrong with that? It could be because you keep making bad choices, not with respect to the here and now, but with respect to your future self. The choices you make today do affect the choices that are available to your future self, so be kind to him. Another possibility to why you feel terrible is that your values are not in alignment with someone else’s values. There is a person (or persons) in your life who thinks you’re not spending your time the way they think you should be, in accordance with their values. This makes you anxious. This is a topic for another post, but why are you choosing to give this person that kind of power over you?

So, anyway, THANK YOU for choosing to spend a minute reading this instead of playing Call of Duty! I really do appreciate it. You may go now — if that pleases you.
