title: "About"
date: 2015-05-30 18:54:09
---

Anarchist, Voluntaryist, Libertarian, what's the difference? I go by either of those labels. They all fundamentally mean the same thing, and that is, *I own myself*. Of course, everyone *believes* they own themselves, but with philosophy I don't just believe it, I try to prove it through logic and reason, and accept the consequences of what it means to truly own myself. So far, this process has led me to being a anarchist. I use labels to efficiently describe my positions. That others don't have the same understanding of what "anarchist" or "voluntaryist" means, I don't care. I like to talk to curious people and if you're curious, you're going to question what I mean. If you're not curious, I probably don't want to talk to you anyway. I like to think that calling myself an anarchist is a selection process, it opens the door to conversation. In other groups who are more familiar with my views I call myself a voluntaryist, and in more common settings, I call myself a libertarian (small 'l').

I don't consider myself to be a good writer (that might be obvious to you), I think it's really hard work. I think what makes me a little better than some is that I don't take writing for granted and I know my limitations and I work hard at improving. I work really hard on making sure that I write very clearly with as little words as necessary. I also don't want to bore you. I strive to write very logically and to the point.

I started this site because I noticed that I was constantly writing down questions and inspirations I was having as I was learning about economics and philosophy. Some of it seemed somewhat insightful so perhaps they would be insightful for you as well. I hope so. Keep in mind, I make no claim to know the answers. I'm really just trying to question peoples assumptions and then follow ideas to their logical conclusions. If I get facts wrong which lead to incorrect conclusions, I'm open to correction.
